# Sugar, Spice and Science: Colonialism and Commerce in the Making of a Global History of Science

Instructor: Kit Heintzman 

Teaching Fellow: Crystal Lee 

## Course overview

In this class we map the global migration of scientific knowledge in early modern history. Each week in the seminar, we will cover a case study of a different commodity in the early modern world (such as breadfruit as slave food in the Pacific, chocolate as medicine crossing the Atlantic, and pepper as a luxury from the Indian Ocean) and its importance to the histories of science, medicine, and industry. Using methods in digital humanities students will chart the global pathways of the production, distribution, and effects of the commodity as described in that week’s assigned readings. Students will be expected to conduct self-directed research to uncover more connections, different historical actors, and the broader outcomes of the relationship between science and commerce in the longue durée. The learning objectives of the class include: thinking globally about the history of science, technology, and medicine, identifying the diversity of historical actors who facilitate the migration of scientific knowledge (e.g. beyond scientists and physicians to local indigenous healers and guides, merchants, patrons, political leaders, slaves, and sailors), and the impact of technology and the environment on travel (e.g. oceanic currents, navigation equipment, and oceanic currents). Finally, the class will examine the economic and environmental impact of “resource” extraction across the world. By foregrounding the movement of knowledge, and thinking about visually representing that information, we will critically examine the representational politics of history. No previous experience with the digital humanities is necessary; we will be developing these skills together. Students will be given the opportunity to revise their digital assignments repeatedly to better their analytic skills, to further explore new research questions, and to produce a quality visual/digital representation of that knowledge suitable for a public audience.
